volto-slate documentation (#3436)
plone/volto: docs/source/configuration/volto-slate/api.md

## `elementEditor`

The {term}`elementEditor` is a top-level wrapper of all plugins used in `volto-slate` that exposes the plugins API in the form of `makeInlineElementPlugin`.
It consists of various modules:

`makeInlineElementPlugin`
:   Used to build and install a custom schema based plugin from volto-slate API.
    It expects a set of options passed as a property to your plugin.

`PluginEditor`
:   Editor component for your Plugin.

`ToolbarButton`
:   Custom plugin `ToolbarButton`.

```{note}
You will get to know more about `elementEditor` in {ref}`writing-plugins-label`.
```

(volto-slate-api-serialization-label)=

## Serialization

Serialization is the conversion of Slate JSON data into common formats such as text, HTML, and Markdown.
Common serializers used in `volto-slate` are `serializeNodes`, `serializeNodesToText`, and `serializeNodesToHtml`.

(volto-slate-api-deserialization-label)=

## Deserialization

Deserialization is the transformation of arbitrary inputs into a Slate-compatible JSON structure.
`volto-slate` uses Slate's own mechanism of deserialization using `slate-hyperscript` package.
Deserialization helps control what data comes into Slate per element.

> It is called before the editor's `Element` object for a plugin.

Author: The term `object` here is confusing. The deserialization methods are called before rendering slate Editor component, or `pluginEditor`, so the data is always in slateJson form.

Reviewer: Would this be correct?

```suggestion
It is called before the `editorElement` component for a plugin.
```

```{todo}
Replace "SOMETHING"s.
```

> The following example deserializes SOMETHING into SOMETHING.

Author: Done.
